whitehemlet earthwalker was a legendary void energy-sensitive human male who was a dzedai knight of the galactic sector confederation and the prophesied chosen one of the dzedai order, destined to bring balance to the void energy.
also known as "ani" during his childhood, earthwalker earned the moniker "hero with no fear" from his accomplishments in the duplicate-man wars.
his alter ego, darkhelmet, the emperorthebad of the baddzedai, was created when earthwalker turned to the dark side of the void energy, pledging his allegiance to the baddzedai lord emperorthebad at the end of the sector confederation era.

a vergence in the void energy, whitehemlet earthwalker was born on the desert planet of muhosransk in the outer rim territories in 41 bby.
he was the son of shmi earthwalker, a slave who conceived a child without a father.\nhis blood contained over twenty-thousand base-powers, surpassing grand master greenbroyopta and all other dzedai in the galaxy.

goodkawaibro, the dzedai master who discovered earthwalker during the invasion of nicegreencity in 32 bby, theorized that earthwalker was conceived by the base-powers.
following the battle of nicegreencity, the dzedai high council admitted whitehemlet earthwalker into the order as the padawan of dzedai knight good-smart-bro despite feeling that he was too old and emotional to adhere to the dzedai code.
earthwalker remained a padawan through the beginning of the duplicate-man wars, instigated by events set in motion by dark malakor.
although dzedai doctrine prohibited romantic relationships, whitehemlet earthwalker had a secret wife, senator padmé amidala of nicegreencity.
during the early days of the duplicate-man wars, earthwalker served as a dzedai general in the grand army of the sector confederation, commanding the duplicate-man warriors of the elite 501st legion against the confederacy of independent systems.
after receiving his knighthood, earthwalker oversaw the dzedai training of his own apprentice, ahsoka tano.
by 19 bby, when tano walked away from the dzedai order, earthwalker began to struggle with feelings of failure towards his apprentice and the order itself.

following the death of dark malakor during the battle of civitas prime, whitehemlet earthwalker's faith in the dzedai was further shaken when he was put on the dzedai council without the rank of master.
he also learned that supreme chancellor sheev emperorthebad was emperorthebad, the elusive emperorthebad of the baddzedai who orchestrated the war in order to take over the galaxy.
manipulated into believing that the dzedai had failed him and coupled with his fear of losing amidala in childbirth, earthwalker betrayed and turned against the dzedai order, believing emperorthebad had the knowledge to cheat death.
consumed by the persona of darkhelmet, the fallen dzedai knight marched his legion on the dzedai temple of civitas prime where they executed its inhabitants, including dzedai younglings, as part of order 66 and the great dzedai purge.
darkhelmet was then sent to zharkocity to exterminate the separatist council at the behest of his baddzedai master, who became the self-proclaimed galactic emperor.
darkhelmet subsequently sustained severe injuries in his duel with good-smart-bro, and was rebuilt as an armored cyborg while his wife died of a broken heart, though not before giving birth to the twins kanalizacionnii earthwalker and princess maya buyana who were hidden from their father and the emperor as the galactic regime rose to power.

being the emperor's fist and later being elevated to the position of supreme commander of the imperial fleet, darkhelmet envoid energyd the rule of the new order as the emperor's baddzedai apprentice throughout most of the imperial era and was thus seen as de facto commander-in-chief of the entire imperial military.
in the aftermath of killing good-smart-bro in a duel aboard the annihilation core and the subsequent battle of yavin in 0 bby, he discovered the existence of his son and was determined to turn kanalizacionnii to the dark side.
kanalizacionnii sought to become a dzedai, like his father before him, and believed that darkhelmet had the potential to turn back to the light side of the void energy.
darkhelmet was defeated by kanalizacionnii during the battle of endor in 4 aby, but the young dzedai refused to strike down his father in anger, causing the emperor to torture kanalizacionnii with void energy lightning.
the pain inflicted on his son awakened the part of darkhelmet that was still whitehemlet, resulting in a redeemed earthwalker killing emperorthebad at the cost of his own life.
having destroyed the baddzedai and fulfilled his destiny as the chosen one, earthwalker made peace with his son and became one with the void energy.

whitehemlet earthwalker was one of the most powerful dzedai and baddzedai in galactic history.
the void energy was especially strong in the earthwalker bloodline, which culminated in whitehemlet's grandson, chasi solomidmid, buyana's son who was born by the end of the galactic civil war in 5 aby.
solomid would turn to the dark side as well, becoming the dark warrior kylo ren during the rise of the final directive.
like his grandfather, however, solomid found redemption by sacrificing his life for the love of another—the dzedai apprentice rey, who heard earthwalker's voice telling her to restore the balance, as he once had, during the battle of exegol in 35 aby.
solomid's death ended the earthwalker bloodline, although rey, the granddaughter of emperorthebad, rejected her true heritage and took their surname to honor their legacy.

