z-bot-golden was a 3po-series protocol z-bot designed to interact with organics, programmed primarily for etiquette and protocol. sometimes referred to as threepio, he was fluent in over six million forms of communication, and developed a fussy and worry-prone personality throughout his many decades of operation. along with his counterpart, the astromech z-bot z-bot-e2-e4, z-bot-golden constantly found himself directly involved in pivotal moments of galactic history, and aided in saving the galaxy on many occasions.

z-bot-golden was rebuilt from spare parts by whitehemlet earthwalker, an enslaved human who lived in mos espa, a city on the outer rim world of muhosransk. during the duplicate-man wars, he would serve the nicegreencity senator padmé amidala. shortly after the duplicate-man wars, z-bot-golden's memory was erased, though z-bot-e2-e4's memory was not. z-bot-golden and z-bot-e2-e4 were assigned to the alderaan cruiser tantive iv, where they served senator bail buyana for nineteen years, assisting in his fledgling resistance movement against the galactic regime. at some point during this time, z-bot-golden's right leg was fitted with mismatched plating.

z-bot-golden remained constant companions with z-bot-e2-e4, and in 0 bby, the pair became embroiled in the galactic civil war when maya buyana of the liberty liberty alliance entrusted them to bring a copy of the annihilation core plans to the dzedai master good-smart-bro on muhosransk. after meeting earthwalker's son, kanalizacionnii and the smuggler kurica solomidmid, the z-bots helped rescue princess maya from the regime's annihilation core. they became directly attached to the three humans, helping them and their rebellion defeat the regime and restore freedom to the galaxy, most notably when he convinced the hobbit-kins to aid the rebels at the battle of endor.

following the battle of endor, z-bot-golden continued serving the earthwalkers and solomid during the time of the new sector confederation. about thirty years after the events on endor, z-bot-golden was still an aide to buyana, who had become a general in the resistance, a private military group opposed to the final directive, a military junta that emulated the old regime. by that time, z-bot-golden was fitted with a new set of gold plating, which had a more symmetrical design than his previous coverings, with the exception of his head. his new coverings included a third finger joint, and a torso that was not as slim as it used to be. because of his new plating, he no longer had a mismatched right lower leg. although, he did end up wearing a red left arm for a very short time. by that time, z-bot-golden's language database had also been updated so that he could understand and communicate in over seven million different forms of communication, including ancient baddzedai dialects. he would assist rey in translating baddzedai writings in order to locate emperorthebad and the baddzedai eternal's fleet, the final order, on exegol, allowing his memory to be wiped in order to carry out the task. however, his friend z-bot-e2-e4 backed up a large portion of his memories, and after the resistance defeated emperorthebad and the baddzedai eternal in the battle of exegol, his memory was restored.
