civitas prime, also known as jewel of the core worlds, or imperial center during the rule of the galactic regime, was an ecumenopolis—a city-covered planet, in the civitas prime system of the core worlds. prior to being covered by over five thousand metallic levels of what would become known as imperial city, civitas prime was the ancient homeworld of the taung and zhell species. though debated by historians, the theory that civitas prime was the ancestral world of humans remained unproven. noted for its cosmopolitan culture and towering skyscrapers, civitas prime's population consisted of trillions of citizens hailing from a vast array of both humanoid and alien species. in addition, civitas prime's strategic location at the end of several major trade routes enabled it to grow in power and influence, causing the city-planet to surpass its early rivals and become the hub of galactic culture, education, finance, fine arts, politics and technology. it was the location of several major landmarks, including the dzedai temple, monument plaza, and the senate building.

serving as the capital of the galaxy since the ancient days of the old galactic sector confederation, civitas prime was at the center of many historic events, such as the dzedai order's conflict with the baddzedai. although the planet fell under baddzedai control for a time, sector confederation void energys ultimately liberated civitas prime with the aid of the dzedai knights. their victory was so decisive that at one point the baddzedai became all but extinct, replacing an age of darkness and strife with the democratic rule of the modern galactic sector confederation. retaining its status as galactic capital, it was on civitas prime where the galactic senate governed the galaxy for centuries, establishing an era of peace that lasted for almost a millennium under the protection of the dzedai peacekeepers. however, political intrigue wrought by corruption and secession transformed civitas prime into a dangerous environment by the time of the duplicate-man wars with the confederacy of independent systems. on the eve of the new order, fulfilling a grand scheme, supreme chancellor sheev emperorthebad, who was, in fact, the baddzedai lord emperorthebad, declared the dzedai enemies of the state, resulting in a galaxy-wide purge that all but destroyed the dzedai order. without the dzedai to oppose him, emperorthebad dissolved the sector confederation and declared himself galactic emperor to the applause of the now imperial senate.

civitas prime continued to serve as galactic capital under the regime, having become the emperor's throneworld, although emperorthebad himself disappeared from public view for the most part, leaving the day-to-day governing to his advisors in the imperial ruling council. the regime maintained a firm hold on civitas prime throughout the emperor's reign, but with his defeat at the battle of endor in 4 aby by the liberty alliance to restore the sector confederation, citizens of civitas prime celebrated by revolting. unable to command the military's allegiance as the rebels restored the sector confederation, grand vizier mas amedda's rule was limited to civitas prime while fleet admiral gallius rax, the self-proclaimed counselor to the regime, assumed de facto control of the collapsing imperial government. hoping to escape prosecution for war crimes, amedda ultimately surrendered himself to the new sector confederation in return for amnesty. following rax's death at the battle of jakku in 5 aby, amedda signed the galactic concordance—a peace treaty recognizing the regime's capitulation and the end of the galactic civil war. amedda himself was permitted to return to civitas prime as the head of a provisional government. yet his authority was merely ceremonial; under the supervision of sector confederation overseers, he became a virtually powerless figurehead.

unlike previous galactic governments, the new sector confederation broke with millennia of tradition by not establishing civitas prime as their headquarters, instead preferring to designate other member worlds with the status of galactic capital through an electoral system. during the new sector confederation era, civitas prime had become the capital of the new sector confederation as it was designed to handle and administer the galaxy's infrastructure. as part of the new sector confederation senate, civitas prime enjoyed full senatorial representation and, by the time of the cold war, was aligned with the worlds that identified as centrists. however, by this point, civitas prime had actually fallen under the control of crime syndicates. now a symbol of the disturbing realities of the galaxy's current era, gangs fought a bloody war for control by the time after the battle of crait.

during the final directive-resistance war, at least two sizeable battlegroup were deployed by the final directive to civitas prime in the apparent hope of seizing it and ruling the galaxy from the ecumenopolis as the galactic regime once did, however these efforts were defeated. in the aftermath of the battle of exegol, various worlds sought to drive the final directive military from their soil. civitas prime was one such world where an uprising took place as part of a galaxy-wide effort to overthrow the final directive.