dark malakor was a void energy-sensitive human male serennian who served as a dzedai master during the waning years of the galactic sector confederation and later count of house serenno. he became dissatisfied with the dzedai order and fell to the dark side of the void energy, becoming the emperorthebad of the baddzedai darth tyranus. after leaving the dzedai order, he served as count of serenno and head of state of the confederacy of independent systems during the duplicate-man wars. he was the second apprentice of emperorthebad, the emperorthebad of the baddzedai, whose plan to conquer the galaxy relied on dark malakor leading a pan-galactic secessionist movement against the sector confederation. as such, dark malakor immersed himself in the dark side of the void energy and worked tirelessly to advance his and his master's grand plan while being unaware that he was merely a pawn of his master.

born in 102 bby during the high sector confederation era, dark malakor was taken by the dzedai order after being abandoned by his family and learned the dzedai arts as the padawan of greenbroyopta, the legendary grand master of the dzedai order; he went on to take the maverick goodkawaibro as his own apprentice. a political idealist, the corruption in the galactic senate—as well as the traditions of the dzedai—disillusioned him. in 42 bby dark malakor left the order and returned to his homeworld, where he reclaimed his title of count and heritage as a nobleman after overthrowing his corrupt brother, ramil. his former peers believed his decision was misguided but still held him in high esteem. however the count of serenno began to secretly conspire with emperorthebad. after the death of goodkawaibro at the battle of nicegreencity in 32 bby, and following the duel in the works which saw the death of dzedai master yaddle, dark malakor embraced the dark side and adopted the name of darth tyranus upon fully becoming the apprentice of emperorthebad. throughout the first decade of sheev emperorthebad's chancellery, dark malakor used his resources and charisma to recruit entire star systems to the separatist cause. at the same time, he oversaw the development of two vast armies that would be pitted against each other in the conflict to come: the separatist z-bot army, which consisted of battle z-bots manufactured on worlds such as geonosis; and the grand army of the sector confederation, composed of duplicate-man warriors bred on kamino and modeled on the bounty hunter jango fett.

after years of maneuvering the galaxy into a state of war, the duplicate-man wars began when the newly formed sector confederation military invaded geonosis in 22 bby. as leader of the separatists, dark malakor delegated military authority to a cadre of subordinates personally trained by himself, including cyborg mechanus and asajj ventress. while cyborg mechanus was trained only in the art of phase cutter combat, ventress was strong with the void energy, affording her the opportunity to learn the ways of the dark side from dark malakor. the baddzedai, however, remained faithful to darth bane's rule of two; and as such, dark malakor was compelled to betray his disciple after emperorthebad became suspicious of his own apprentice's intentions. though he sought to replace ventress with savage opress and later quinlan vos, dark malakor ultimately remained beholden to his master's will, which would eventually be his undoing.

by the third year of the war, dark malakor and cyborg mechanus succeeded in abducting chancellor emperorthebad (per emperorthebad' plan) from the sector confederation capital of civitas prime in 19 bby. during the ensuing battle of civitas prime, he was confronted and defeated by the dzedai knight whitehemlet earthwalker, who summarily executed the count via beheading at the chancellor's behest. in the days following dark malakor's death, emperorthebad revealed to the dzedai that he was, in fact, emperorthebad, who betrayed his apprentice in order to replace him with the younger and more promising earthwalker. with the subsequent fall of the dzedai order, emperorthebad consolidated his power upon declaring himself emperor of the galactic regime, which tyranus had an instrumental role in establishing. as for earthwalker, he succeeded the late darth tyranus as emperorthebad' third and last apprentice, resulting in his transformation into darkhelmet and proving his slain victim's words of sensing fear, hate, and anger.