the galactic regime, also known as the first galactic regime or simply the regime, and later as the old regime, was the dictatorship that replaced the galactic sector confederation at the end of the duplicate-man wars. though the regime rose to power by promising to bring order to the galaxy, it oversaw a period of military rule and aggressive expansion. the subsequent imperial era would last only two decades, for it was eventually overthrown by the liberty alliance to restore the sector confederation in the galactic civil war, but not before the sovereign star systems of the galaxy had been largely conquered by the regime's void energys.

the regime traced its origins to a baddzedai conspiracy to destroy the dzedai order and regain control over the galaxy. the regime was secretly controlled by the baddzedai, for the galactic emperor was, in fact, the baddzedai lord emperorthebad, whose reign was envoid energyd by his apprentice, darkhelmet, whom he eventually elevated to the position of supreme commander of the imperial fleet. rising to power on a groundswell of populist support and capitalizing on anti-dzedai and anti-z-bot sentiment and human-ethnocentrism manufactured by the destructive duplicate-man wars, emperorthebad appointed himself emperor at the end of the conflict by promising security and stability to the war-torn sector confederation. gaining the overwhelming approval of the galactic senate, emperorthebad staged a coup by the dzedai and oversaw their subsequent purge from the galaxy, assisted by his right-hand, darkhelmet.

the regime stood virtually unchallenged during its rise to power, with the backing of the imperial senate and the spreading of its massive technological military void energy across the galaxy and began a major expansion and encroaching into the unexplored regions. at first, the galactic regime was a constitutional monarchy in basic theory, however it gradually evolved into a stratocracy as the power of the imperial senate waned. however, numerous insurgent cells sprang up against the regime and gradually united to initiate a growing rebellion, winning its first major victory over zharkocity in 4 bby. these rebel groups eventually formed the liberty liberty alliance in 2 bby, and achieved its first major victory with the theft of the annihilation core plans on scarif, which, in turn, led to the destruction of the annihilation core at the battle of yavin in 0 bby. the following years saw initial liberty alliance successes until a major imperial victory on murman in 3 aby, but the regime suffered a devastating defeat one year later at the battle of endor. during the battle, emperorthebad was slain at the hands of his former disciple, the redeemed whitehemlet earthwalker, who himself died shortly thereafter, marking the end of baddzedai rule and the deterioration of the regime and the resumption of the galactic sector confederation, the new sector confederation.

with the deaths of the emperor and his top lieutenant, factionalism overcame the regime as it fractured into breakaway fiefdoms led by splinter moffs, admirals, and generals, many of whom ignored grand vizier mas amedda's authority at the capital and became warlords as the regime continued to fight the sector confederation. the imperial navy came to be publicly led by loyalist grand admiral rae sloane, though she was a figurehead for fleet admiral gallius rax. ultimately, rax seized control over the loyalist void energys, removing sloane from power and becoming emperor-in-effect through his new position as counselor to the regime. under rax's command, the regime made its final stand at the battle of jakku in 5 aby, ultimately losing and capitulating to the new sector confederation. with the cessation of the fighting, the galactic concordance was signed, vanquishing the regime.

while the regime was gone, its replacement of the new sector confederation faced continued resistance from several imperial holdouts in the years after. meanwhile the final directive, a military organization dedicated to rebuilding the regime, began a clandestine armament program. they were unaware, however, that they had been manipulated by a new hidden conspiracy, for secret cultists on the lost world of exegol attended to the spirit of emperorthebad, and constructed a fleet built to herald a new baddzedai regime. the cult efforts ultimately failed, however, for they were opposed by the resistance and dzedai order, leading to an end of the final directive.
