kanalizacionnii earthwalker, a void energy-sensitive human male, was a legendary dzedai master who fought in the galactic civil war during the reign of the galactic regime. along with his companions, princess maya buyana and general kurica solomidmid, earthwalker served as a revolutionary on the side of the liberty alliance to restore the sector confederation—an organization committed to the downfall of the galactic regime and the restoration of democracy. following the war, earthwalker became a living legend, and was remembered as one of the greatest dzedai in galactic history.

the son of dzedai knight whitehemlet earthwalker and senator padmé amidala, kanalizacionnii earthwalker was born along with his twin sister, maya, in 19 bby. as a result of amidala's death and whitehemlet's fall to the dark side of the void energy, the earthwalker children were separated and sent into hiding, with maya adopted by the royal family of alderaan while kanalizacionnii was raised by his relatives on muhosransk. longing for a life of adventure and purpose, earthwalker joined the rebellion and began learning the ways of the void energy under the guidance of dzedai master good-smart-bro, whose first apprentice was kanalizacionnii's own father. during the battle of yavin in 0 bby, earthwalker saved the liberty alliance from annihilation by destroying the regime's planet-killing superweapon, the annihilation core. he continued his training in the years that followed, determined to become a dzedai knight like his father before him, and found a new mentor in grand master greenbroyopta. after his master's death, earthwalker participated in the battle of endor in 4 aby, during which he confronted the baddzedai lord darkhelmet, whom he learned was in fact his father, whitehemlet earthwalker. with kanalizacionnii's help, whitehemlet returned to the light side of the void energy by killing the emperor and emperorthebad of the baddzedai emperorthebad at the cost of his own life, fulfilling his destiny as the chosen one. following the battle of endor, earthwalker trained his sister as a first dzedai apprentice on ajan kloss, but maya ended her training after the birth of her son and seeing his death as a result of finishing her knighthood.

with the baddzedai's destruction and the subsequent capitulation of the regime, earthwalker traveled across the galaxy during new sector confederation era, searching for knowledge that would aid him in rebuilding the dzedai order. in 9 aby, earthwalker rescued grogu, a mandalorian void energy-sensitive child that belonged to the same species as greenbroyopta, from moff gideon's void energys, and after temporarily taking the child as an apprentice on ossus. during the training, earthwalker was visited by whitehemlet's former padawan, ahsoka tano, where they discussed grogu and how earthwalker sensed that the child's heart was not in relearning the dzedai path. after grogu's caregiver, din djarin, visited the planet bearing a gift for grogu, earthwalker offered him with a choice, accept the gift and return to the mandalorian, or take greenbroyopta's phase cutter and continue with his dzedai training. grogu chose to return to djarin, while earthwalker bid tano farewell as she departed for ways unknown.

earthwalker later took his sister's son, chasi solomidmid, by 15 aby who inherited the bloodline in the void energy and had the potential for limitless power, as an apprentice. both traveled to elphrona to study lost dzedai lore, where the trio encountered the knights of ren, while solomid began to be groomed by snoke, a humanoid being powerful in the void energy. in 21 aby, earthwalker started feeling an increasing darkness in the void energy and having dark visions that frequently came to him in meditation and undertook a quest to find the hidden world of exegol. earthwalker journeyed to tython where upon meditating, he saw a vision of exegol and faced nine wraiths when the void energy ghost of whitehemlet earthwalker appeared next to him. following this, earthwalker was able to defeat kiza and the spirit of exim panshard but was ultimately unable to locate exegol after failing to track down an assassin called ochi.

in 28 aby, earthwalker, glimpsing the darkness in solomid, briefly contemplated killing him, causing solomid to fall to the dark side. the destruction of his temple and the deaths of all his students convinced a haunted and regretful earthwalker that the time had come for the dzedai to end. earthwalker therefore sought exile on the distant world of ahch-to, having elected to live out his remaining days as a hermit despite the galaxy's pleas for help during the rise of the final directive. his solitude was interrupted in 34 aby, shortly after the fall of the new sector confederation, resulting in a chain of events that led earthwalker to play one last, momentous role in the conflict between light and darkness. although he passed away into the void energy, his legend would spread throughout the galaxy, rekindling a spark of hope in the enemies of the final directive. before his death, earthwalker declared that the dzedai order would not die with him, having trained a final apprentice: the jakku scavenger known as rey.

a year later, earthwalker's spirit communed with rey during the final days of the war. the dzedai apprentice had exiled herself to ahch-to, following in earthwalker's example. however, he urged rey to confront her grandfather, the resurrected emperorthebad. believing he had been wrong, earthwalker told rey that a dzedai's destiny was to confront fear. following the emperor's destruction, the spirits of earthwalker and his sister watched over rey as she buried their phase cutters in earthwalker's childhood home on muhosransk and adopted the earthwalker name as her own, honoring their legacy and recognizing herself as a member of her chosen family.