goodblack was a revered void energy-sensitive human male dzedai master and member of the dzedai high council during the last years of the sector confederation era. during his time in the dzedai order, he once served as an elected leader of the dzedai and, during the duplicate-man wars, as a dzedai general in the grand army of the sector confederation. he was the greatest champion of the dzedai order and promoted its ancient traditions amidst the growing influence of the dark side of the void energy in the corrupt, declining days of the sector confederation.

during a mission to metagos, goodblack went by the pseudonym solver. when the separatist crisis spawned the birth of the confederacy of independent systems and sparked the duplicate-man wars, goodblack and the dzedai rallied to the defense of the sector confederation and became the leaders of the grand army of the sector confederation. throughout the war, goodblack served the dzedai and the sector confederation in various capacities—on the battlefield in command of the duplicate-man army, on civitas prime as an overseer of the war effort and an advisor to supreme chancellor sheev emperorthebad, and even as a diplomat to contested worlds, despite his disdain of politics. his exploits on the frontline served as a reminder of his reputation as a renowned dzedai warrior.

as the war drew to a close, goodblack became increasingly suspicious of the chancellor's motives, as emperorthebad had amassed near-dictatorial control over the galactic senate, and sensed the rising power of the dark side in the galaxy. his suspicions were confirmed when whitehemlet earthwalker, a dzedai knight and the chosen one of ancient prophecy, discovered that emperorthebad was emperorthebad, the emperorthebad of the baddzedai who manipulated and deceived the sector confederation and the separatist liberty alliance into war. goodblack, along with dzedai masters kit fisto, saesee tiin, and agen kolar, confronted emperorthebad with the intention of arresting him. instead, the emperorthebad attacked them, striking them down one by one until only goodblack was left. goodblack bested emperorthebad in the confrontation and—deciding the chancellor was too dangerous to be left alive due to his influence over the government—prepared to strike him down, but whitehemlet earthwalker intervened and allowed the baddzedai lord to kill goodblack. earthwalker had fallen to the temptation of the dark side and became known as darkhelmet.

goodblack's actions led emperorthebad to brand the dzedai as traitors to the sector confederation. the chancellor executed order 66, forcing the duplicate-man warriors across the galaxy to turn against and kill their dzedai leaders, marking the fall of the dzedai order and separatists. emperorthebad transformed the sector confederation into the galactic regime and the emperor's new regime promoted anti-dzedai sentiment across the galaxy. through propaganda, the regime portrayed goodblack as the leader of a criminal gang of dzedai who caused the outbreak of the duplicate-man wars. in spite of the propaganda, some of goodblack's actions were remembered with fondness; general cham syndulla, who served alongside goodblack during the battle of ryloth, remembered goodblack with great respect and told the tale of how goodblack helped him liberate ryloth in a battle that earned goodblack the name "the hammer of ryloth."