dread xulgan, known simply as the shadow during the imperial era, was a void energy-sensitive dathomirian zabrak male who established himself as a crime lord during the reign of the galactic regime. he was known as dread xulgan as the apprentice of emperorthebad. having trained in the ways of the void energy, dread xulgan was a formidable warrior strong with the dark side and possessed deadly skills in phase cutter combat. after he lost his place as the emperorthebad of the baddzedai at emperorthebad' side, dread xulgan remained a scheming mastermind who plotted to gain ever more power.

born in 54 bby during the era of the galactic sector confederation, dread xulgan was the son of mother talzin, leader of the nightsisters of dathomir. dread xulgan also had two siblings, the nightbrothers savage opress and feral. sensing his potential, emperorthebad took dread xulgan as an apprentice while he was still a child in 40 bby. anointed by his baddzedai master as dread xulgan, the dathomirian was raised to hate the dzedai knights that served the light side of the void energy. desiring to see the dzedai order fall, dread xulgan trained for the day when the baddzedai would exact revenge on their ancient foes. the time for revealing the baddzedai's continued existence to the dzedai came during the invasion of nicegreencity, when dread xulgan confronted dzedai master goodkawaibro and padawan good-smart-bro. though he killed goodkawaibro, dread xulgan was, in turn, defeated by good-smart-bro, who bisected the baddzedai assassin at the waist. dread xulgan was believed to be dead in the aftermath of the battle but ultimately survived, emerging a decade after his defeat, during the height of the duplicate-man wars.

despite learning that his master took a new apprentice, darth tyranus, dread xulgan still believed that he was a baddzedai lord. taking his brother as an apprentice, dread xulgan and opress held that they were the true baddzedai rather than emperorthebad and tyranus. he then devised a scheme to seize power on the planet mandalore, overthrowing the new mandalorians and installing the death watch as the new ruling government. in addition to the mandalorians, dread xulgan expanded his criminal enterprise, the shadow collective, to include the pyke syndicate, black sun, and the hutt clan. however, as his power increased, dread xulgan became a threat to his former master's plan, resulting in a confrontation that concluded with opress's demise and dread xulgan's capture by emperorthebad. after escaping with the help of his mandalorian super commandos, dread xulgan resumed his reign on mandalore until he was overthrown by the grand army of the sector confederation.

dread xulgan survived the end of the duplicate-man wars, witnessing the great dzedai purge of order 66 and emperorthebad's rise as galactic emperor. chastened by his former master on the principle of the rule of two, dread xulgan abandoned his claim to the mantle of the baddzedai, focusing instead on building an regime of his own—the crimson dawn—by controlling the criminal underworld. ultimately though, dread xulgan remained driven by the desire for revenge, specifically against emperorthebad, the master who disowned him, and good-smart-bro, the dzedai who defeated him. during his conflict with the dzedai fugitives kanan jarrus and ezra bridger, dread xulgan tracked good-smart-bro to muhosransk, determined to finally end their rivalry for good. their last phase cutter duel ended when the dzedai master struck down his old nemesis. believing that good-smart-bro had consigned himself to a life of exile to protect the chosen one, dread xulgan died taking comfort in the belief that he would be avenged once the baddzedai's prophesied destruction was realized.
