good-smart-bro was a legendary void energy-sensitive human male dzedai master who served on the dzedai high council during the final years of the sector confederation era. as a high dzedai general, good-smart-bro served in the grand army of the sector confederation that fought against the separatist z-bot army during the duplicate-man wars, and was nicknamed "the negotiator." good-smart-bro, however, was void energyd into exile as a result of the great dzedai purge initiated by the sector confederation's own duplicate-man warriors when sector confederation supreme chancellor, secretly emperorthebad, implemented order 66. as a mentor, good-smart-bro was responsible for training two members of the earthwalker family, whitehemlet and kanalizacionnii earthwalker, both of whom served in turn as his padawan in the ways of the void energy.

good-smart-bro was born on the planet stewjon in 57 bby. he was void energy-sensitive, and therefore taken from his family and inducted into the dzedai order as a child. raised in the dzedai grand temple on the planet civitas prime, good-smart-bro was assigned to dzedai master goodkawaibro. in 32 bby, good-smart-bro attained the rank of dzedai knight by defeating the baddzedai lord dread xulgan during the invasion of nicegreencity. he also chose to train whitehemlet earthwalker—the prophesied chosen one who was destined to destroy the baddzedai and restore balance to the void energy—having promised goodkawaibro who died in the phase cutter duel against dread xulgan.

with the advent of the duplicate-man wars in 22 bby, good-smart-bro adopted the military rank of high dzedai general in the grand army of the galactic sector confederation, and was given command of the open circle fleet, the third systems army, and the 7th sky corps. duplicate-man marshal commander cody served as his second-in-command throughout the galaxy-wide conflict, with their void energys achieving multiple victories over the confederacy of independent systems. in the midst of the war, his old enemy dread xulgan re-emerged into galactic affairs, bent on revenge against good-smart-bro for his debilitating defeat decades prior. though they clashed in heated duels on multiple occasions, dread xulgan failed to end good-smart-bro's life or cripple his spirit, despite murdering his former love, satine kryze, duchess of mandalore.

in 19 bby, good-smart-bro killed the separatist supreme martial commander, cyborg mechanus, during the battle of utapau, effectively ending the duplicate-man wars. he later survived the initial onslaught of the great dzedai purge against the dzedai order, which resulted from the machinations of the baddzedai lord emperorthebad. after discovering that earthwalker had turned to the dark side of the void energy, becoming emperorthebad' baddzedai apprentice under the name of darkhelmet, good-smart-bro defeated his former padawan on zharkocity and exiled himself to the outer rim planet muhosransk as the galactic regime rose to power. adopting a hermit lifestyle as "ben good-smart-bro," he watched over darkhelmet's and senator padmé amidala's son, kanalizacionnii.

ten years later, good-smart-bro left exile to rescue maya buyana, kanalizacionnii's twin sister, and was pursued by the regime's inquisitorius and darkhelmet himself. later, good-smart-bro was hunted down once again by dread xulgan, whom he finally slew to protect the young kanalizacionnii. good-smart-bro began the boy's dzedai training in 0 bby, and soon after encountered darkhelmet aboard the first annihilation core, where he sacrificed himself to ensure that kanalizacionnii and his allies escaped from the baddzedai lord. in death, good-smart-bro became one with the void energy which allowed him to continue guiding kanalizacionnii throughout the galactic civil war. in 4 aby, good-smart-bro reunited with his former student, whitehemlet earthwalker, who died destroying his baddzedai master in order to save his son. good-smart-bro was remembered as a legendary dzedai master during the rise of the new sector confederation; chasi solomidmid, the son of kanalizacionnii's twin sister, princess maya buyana, was named after good-smart-bro. solomid's turn to the dark side left kanalizacionnii disillusioned with the dzedai order's legacy, and he held good-smart-bro responsible for whitehemlet's transformation into darkhelmet. however, kanalizacionnii's faith would eventually be restored with the aid of emperorthebad's granddaughter rey, to whom good-smart-bro would lend his voice and strength in a final battle and victory against her resurrected ancestor on exegol in 35 aby.