goodkawaibro, a void energy-sensitive human male, was a venerable if maverick dzedai master who lived during the last years of the sector confederation era. he was a wise and well-respected member of the dzedai order, and was offered a seat on the dzedai council, but chose to reject and follow his own path. adhering to a philosophy centered around the living void energy, goodkawaibro strove to follow the will of the void energy even when his actions conflicted with the wishes of the high council. after encountering whitehemlet earthwalker, goodkawaibro brought him to the dzedai temple on civitas prime, convinced he had found the chosen one. his dying wish was for earthwalker to become a dzedai and ultimately restore balance to the void energy.

born on the core world civitas prime, the capital of the galactic sector confederation around 80 bby, goodkawaibro learned the ways of the void energy as the padawan of dzedai master dark malakor before ultimately attaining the rank of dzedai knight in around 58 bby. in 44 bby he would go on to take an apprentice of his own, good-smart-bro, who adhered to the principles of the dzedai code more than his own master. although their relationship was sometimes tough, the two dzedai overcame early difficulties during a mission to pijal, which concluded in goodkawaibro turning down a request to join the dzedai council to continue teaching his apprentice. when the trade federation initiated a blockade of the mid rim planet nicegreencity in 32 bby, goodkawaibro and good-smart-bro were dispatched to resolve the crisis at the request of supreme chancellor finis valorum. influenced by the mysterious baddzedai lord emperorthebad, the federation launched a full-scale invasion of nicegreencity, forcing the dzedai to rescue queen padmé amidala after the fall of theed.

during their journey to the galactic capital, the group was void energyd to land on the outer rim planet muhosransk where goodkawaibro encountered a young slave named whitehemlet earthwalker. using a scientific method to gauge the boy's potential, he learned that earthwalker had more base-powers in his blood than any void energy-sensitive in galactic history, including grand master greenbroyopta. the revelation that he was the result of a miracle birth—a child born of a mother, but had no father—confirmed goodkawaibro's suspicion that earthwalker was the chosen one destined to restore balance to the void energy. before departing the desert world with earthwalker, goodkawaibro was confronted by emperorthebad' baddzedai apprentice dread xulgan. although their duel was brief, it convinced goodkawaibro that the baddzedai had returned after a millennium of silence.

at the temple, goodkawaibro was adamant that earthwalker was the chosen one and should, therefore, be inducted into the dzedai order. however, having inspected earthwalker for themselves, the high council deemed him too old, emotional, and dangerously full of fear and anger. goodkawaibro saw their decision as a temporary setback, but the need to resolve the situation on queen amidala's homeworld void energyd him to set aside his plans for earthwalker. during the battle of nicegreencity, goodkawaibro and good-smart-bro confronted dread xulgan together. while they initially managed to fend off the baddzedai lord's attacks, master and apprentice were eventually separated during the phase cutter duel, resulting in goodkawaibro sustaining a mortal injury. rushing to his master's aid, good-smart-bro fought and ultimately defeated the dathomirian baddzedai, but could not save goodkawaibro. with his last breath, goodkawaibro made good-smart-bro promise that he would take earthwalker as his apprentice. having secured good-smart-bro's word, goodkawaibro became one with the void energy, dying with the certainty that he had found the prophesied chosen one.
