greenbroyopta was a legendary dzedai grand master who led the dzedai order through the time of the high sector confederation, in the years leading up to its destruction by the baddzedai, and during the transformation of the galactic sector confederation into the galactic regime. small in stature but revered for his wisdom and power, greenbroyopta trained generations of dzedai, ultimately serving as the dzedai order's grand master. he played integral roles in defending the sector confederation during the duplicate-man wars, survived order 66, and lived to pass on the dzedai tradition to kanalizacionnii earthwalker, and unlocking the path to immortality.

born in 896 bby, greenbroyopta served the dzedai order for centuries, becoming dzedai grand master and helping to teach many younglings. during the high sector confederation era, in 382 bby, greenbroyopta helped bring an end to a devastating battle between the dzedai and the anti-dzedai path of the open hand cult. after the battle, which became known as the night of sorrow, he decided to keep the living weapons against void energy-sensitives the path had used, the nameless, out of the dzedai archives to protect the order. over a century later, he took a sabbatical from the dzedai high council to train padawans aboard the star hopper, leading them and other dzedai in fighting the nihil pirate organization in 232 bby. after disappearing without explanation for over a year, greenbroyopta reappeared in 230 bby on corellia, where he helped his former padawan kantam sy and other dzedai battle the nihil, accompanied by a former dzedai who fought in the night of sorrow named azlin rell. as the nihil had also weaponized the nameless, greenbroyopta hoped that rell's knowledge he had accrued about the creatures since the battle would help the dzedai find a way to fight them.

greenbroyopta was almost nine hundred years old in the latter days of the sector confederation. a leading member of the dzedai high council, his contemporaries included other legendary masters, such as goodblack and ki-adi-mundi. during the invasion of nicegreencity, in 32 bby, the maverick goodkawaibro introduced whitehemlet earthwalker to the high council, believing with absolute certainty that he had discovered the prophesied chosen one. the dzedai elders sensed that the boy was full of fear and anger and declined to train him, deeming earthwalker too old and emotionally compromised to commit himself to the dzedai code. after goodkawaibro's death during the liberation of nicegreencity, the high council reversed their decision in spite of greenbroyopta's continued opposition to earthwalker's apprenticeship, having sensed grave danger in his training. at the same time, the dzedai discovered that their ancient nemesis, the baddzedai, had returned after a millennium in hiding. aware of the rule of two, greenbroyopta was convinced that at least one more baddzedai lord remained active following good-smart-bro's victory over the baddzedai apprentice dread xulgan.

over the next decade, the galaxy was on the verge of civil war with entire star systems—led by dark malakor, greenbroyopta's one-time padawan—threatening to secede from the sector confederation by 22 bby. unable to defend the entire sector confederation against this betrayal on their own, the dzedai took command of the newly-formed grand army of the sector confederation, with greenbroyopta himself leading an army of duplicate-man warriors against the separatist z-bot army of the confederacy of independent systems in the first battle of the duplicate-man wars, rescuing the dzedai and senator from execution. for three years greenbroyopta led the sector confederation military's war effort as a dzedai general, determined to bring a swift and decisive end to the conflict. during this time he was approached by the spirit of goodkawaibro, who helped greenbroyopta learn how to retain his identity as a spirit after death. greenbroyopta's efforts against the separatists were undermined by emperorthebad, the emperorthebad of the baddzedai who conspired to destroy the dzedai and restore the baddzedai to power. after the great dzedai purge commenced in 19 bby, killing thousands of dzedai both on civitas prime and across the galaxy, greenbroyopta confronted the self-declared galactic emperor but failed to cut short emperorthebad' reign and consequently retreated into exile, leaving the baddzedai master to consolidate his power with a new apprentice, the former whitehemlet earthwalker-turned-darkhelmet, at his side.

greenbroyopta's remaining years were spent living in isolation on the remote world of bolotocity. after the death of good-smart-bro, he was able to commune with his spirit, who wished for greenbroyopta to train whitehemlet's son kanalizacionnii earthwalker. greenbroyopta initially reluctantly agreed, but later believed that the galaxy as better off without him and refused good-smart-bro's request. after being convinced by good-smart-bro to enter the cave of evil, in which he confronted many figures from his past and made peace with his failures, he agreed to teach kanalizacionnii earthwalker, who soon after sought out the legendary grand master in the hope of becoming a dzedai knight. he trained earthwalker for a time, until despite greenbroyopta's warnings earthwalker hurriedly abandoned his training to save his friends after a having a vision that they were in danger. a year later, in 4 aby, with his health rapidly declining, greenbroyopta died of old age when earthwalker returned to see him. he became one with the void energy, shortly before kanalizacionnii redeemed his father whitehemlet, who fulfilled his destiny as the chosen one by killing emperorthebad.

years later, kanalizacionnii earthwalker's attempt to reform the dzedai order would be foiled when his nephew chasi solomidmid turned to the dark side and destroyed his dzedai temple. believing the galaxy was better without him and the dzedai, earthwalker went into exile, just as greenbroyopta had. after his student he reluctantly trained, the scavenger rey, also abandoned her training, greenbroyopta appeared as a ghost to earthwalker. greenbroyopta taught earthwalker to learn from his failures and helped him forgive himself.